Welcome back so let's
go ahead and begin
with our first the
very first C++ program
it's not gonna do much in fact it's not
going to do anything but in this chapter
we will write a C++
program to show
what each C++ program
must contain you
might find it a little bit surprising
just how little will attack sure just
how little is actually
needed for a C++
program we will see
how to later on down
along. Later on
within the confines of this chapter we
will see how to write to standard output
how to declare variables in C++ and
their representation but for the time
let's go ahead and see
what a C++ program
must contain so this is the bare
minimum
like nothing but the
mandatory things, let's just
go ahead and pop code
blocks come on come on, today
get the file gonna go
ahead and create a
new project for this
particular chapter
so just good like a console
application go next
yes we will make sure
that it's C++ and
not see, project title,
chapter 1, so you
can change its location
here I've just save it
please main on the
desktop it doesn't
really matter to me at
all, but you can place
your or wherever you
would like to place
it and go ahead and click on Next
this is all fine and
dandy just go ahead
and click on Finish
so if you go into
sources main CPP go ahead
and open it up you
can delete this. In
case you don't have the
main EPP you can just
just basically create
you just basically
create a file I do
believe that I have
demonstrated that in
the very beginning
chapters but you will
always have this
template in codeblocks
anyway it doesn't
matter is the main
CPP is just that file can be
empty, it can contain some code
depending on how
the templates are
configured so codeblocks does gives
us does give us the basic program but I
deleted it just to show you what the
basic one actually needs
to contain becasue
codeblocks gives
you a little bit
more than the Basic
C++ program so just
gonna press enter a
couple of times for
the sake of aesthetics
no real reason
for no real technical
reason for it and
and type in int main,
ok, press enter,
close. This is it.
This is a C++ program!
the very basic one, it is a valid C++
program and it cannot get smaller
than this, this is the
smallest possible
C++ program that
you can make in my
opinion if somebody else can make a
smaller one please please send me
a private message or something like that I would love to see it
but I am pretty sure it's not
possible. Anyway
that's it this is a
valid C++ program it
doesn't do anything
at all and if you
build and run it
nothing will happen
and the program will
simply stop executing
we will later on
along the way we
will explain what
each line of the code
does through our
examples but for now you have to
keep in mind what
we have learned in
this chapter, it may
not seem like we've
learned a lot but
believe me it is very
significant probably the most
significant thing you
will learn about
C++ because without
it you won't be able
to move anywhere in
C++ world so each
C++ program must
have a valid entry
point meaning main function what
functions are etc that
will be explained
along the way but for now just
take my word for it
every C++ program
must have this entry
point must have an
entry point and that
entry point is the
main function this
is how things are
and later in the course you will see
what functions are and how they work now
let's go ahead
build from the program
so build and run
up here and go ahead
and click on it
that's it, now depending on the
development environment
you are using
the integrated
development environment
that is I'm using
code blocks as it is
the simplest one, codeblocks
will always
pretty much do this
it will pop this
terminal and that it will hold it open
for use to it doesn't close if you were
to for example running
this in Eclipse
it would behave in a different
fashion and if you
were to run this in
NetBeans again it
would behave in a
different fashion if
you were to compile
this from compiling
run it from the CMD
again it would behave in a little bit of
a different fashion you see
each environment adds
something of its own
but as you can see
absolutely nothing
happens there was nothing printed out
onto the screen to program does nothing
etc let's just go
ahead and close it
and then this is
basically it that's
what you need to learn
this is the very
first thing that I
wanted to teach you
what a basic most basic
C++ program looks
like that it works. I
bet you very well and
we shall see each other in the next
chapter in the next tutorial.